
--- Atomic Widgets ---


An atomic widget is composed of buttons, cells, an input layouts. 

Input and cell atomic widgets often bind to data from variable object(s)
defined in its parent container. Object data can be Data backed (database) or a virtual property.

    Requiered fields: 

id: unique name (label property), it must be unique within a given PCF
value property: displayed data, its the value of the property. Only data fields are editable
label: the label. This label should not be hardcoded, but it should point to a "locale string" (config/localization/en_US)

    inside the data field, you access the object fields through the "dot notation", remeber to cast objects 
    when you try to access a subtype field

There is a Generic input widget that dynamically determines input type based on value data type (boolean, date, typekey, text). 
For a complete list on data types, take a look at "data types.png".

Widgets can be static or dynamic. Dynamic widgets evaluates to expressions. For you to create a dynamic widget, you need that:

    editable requires boolean expression
    label requires a string expression
    value requires an object expression

The documentation for all widget properties is found at: file:///C:/Guidewire/TrainingApp/modules/pcf.html


--- Detail View Panels ---


A Container widgets is a collection of atomic widgets.  A detail view panel is a container widget that allows the user to view|
and edit data for that object. 

    A detail view panel often has a root object. If referenced, a parent container must pass the root object to the detail view panel.
    A detail view panel must have at least one input column to store input widgets.

You can make a reusable PCF file. For that, the filename must end with "DV". You can not re use inline widgets. 

creating detail view panels: just right click a folder under config/Page Configuration/pcf. In the context menu, click on Detail View.
                             You must also specify the variable object (type field). The name is the id that is given to that object
                             instance.
                             
A reference widget is used to embed a pfc file as a child container. A PanelRef widget can reference a Detail View Panel
List View Panel, a Card View Panel, and a List Detail Panel. The panel reference needs a variable "def", which is the panel name to reference
and pass as a root object: eg 

    ViewPanelDV(variable)


--- Editable view panel ---


An screen is able to make editable all of his children. By default, all containers are editable. For widgets to be editable, 
its parent container must also be editable (think of it like a hierarchy). You need to add a toolbar as a top level component 
in an screen component. That toolbar must contain an "edit buttons" component.

Use CurrentLocatio.InEditMode to set dynamically the availability of an atomic widget (?).  


--- Input sets ---


An input set is a named group of widgets 
    Can contain atomic widgets 
    Can be reused by detail view panels
    Cannot be referenced by secondary views
    Cannot have a toolbar directly associated with it

Input sets can contain:
    Input widgets
    Input dividers
    Label widgets 
    List view panels
    Other input sets!

cannot contain: Input columns

An input set can be reusable, but its filename must end with "InputSet", it must recieve a root object (like a detail view does). 
You may also use it as an inline widget which inherits from its parent object.

You can set the visibility or editability on an Input set dynamically, this is called shared logic.

The steps to add is pretty much like before: do create a file with the inputset extension. In a page or a CV file, use a inputSetRef.
Remember to passdown the root object.


--- List views ---


A list displays row widgets. This is done through a row iterator, which is a function that operates upon on array of the root
object or a query result. And just like before, you can create a file (receiving a root object) or an 
inline widget (with an inherited parent object). A row widget is composed of cell widgets. You need to add cell widgets in to the row.
These cell widgets must reference the current object property. 

For you to reference a list view panel, you can use a PanelRef (unlike the previous section: an InputRef). You have a second
option, a list view input. A list view input automatically applies paging. Nonetheless you can add the toolbar. The toolbar must be
outside the list view, and inisde the screen or page that references this view.

list view panel - Row iterator - iterator - cell widgets


--- Editable list views ---


Editable list view panels enable users to create new rows, remove rows, and edit existing rows through iterator buttons.

For a cell to be editable, only the row iterator needs to be explicitly set to editable. List view panel and row can inherit 
"editable" from parent.

Properties of "row iterator" govern functionality of iterator buttons (you need to set "toAdd" and "toRemove" in the 
iterator properties, these are method calls).  that is, if you link them first (right click the iterator buttons), and
enable the checkbox behaviour. "Iterator buttons" is a component that you drag and drop into a toolbar (this toolbar is inside
a PanelRef component).

¿specify the variables need it to set a list view?


--- mode ---


"Mode" is a property used for PCFs that are appropriate for a given business scenario. This happens when you need to
modify a component for each case scenario. Its cumbersone to logically display an specific component depending on
a given case escenario. 

Modes can be used with:
    Detail view panels 
    Card view panels
    Input sets
    List view panels
    Info bars
    Screens
    Menu item sets
    ...and more (refer to documentation)

Usage instructions:

    1. Create modal PCF set
    2. For each PCF, specify its mode(s)
    3. Ensure there is one PCF with "default" mode (otherwise an error is thrown)
    4. Ensure each PCF has identical required variables (in number, type, and order)
    5. Create the reference to modal PCFs (specify the reference in PanelRef, InputSetRef, etc: eg
       anABContact.Subtype. Note that "Subtype" is not entity 'specific', we are just referencing the 
       current subtype for the current object).

Modes can reference subtypes. You referene subtypes using the pipe operator, eg: 

    ABperson | ABDoctor | ABAttorney

PCFs are listed in the file tree as <ID>.<MODE>, eg:

    ABPersonSubtypeInfoInputSet.ABDoctor


--- locations ---


A location is a PCF element that a user can navigate to.

    pages: A single screen
    locationGroups: is a collection of pages used  to view or modify. data Each group has single info bar, actions menu, 
                    and side bar
    wizard: A wizard is an ordered collection of screens used to execute a complex business process
            It contains a single info bar, actions menu, and a side bar. It also Includes a toolbar with Back and Next buttons.
    popup: contains a single screen and returns the user to the previous location once 
           the popup is closed.
    worksheet: contains a single screen rendered in the workspace frame.
    forward: contains logic to execute before navigating to another location. It often involves deciding which location 
             to navigate to.
    exit points: a URL outside of the Guidewire application.
    entry point: reference used by widgets to navigate to a given location.

Most atomic widgets have an action property that can be set to a Gosu statement
When set, atomic widget becomes clickable. When they are clicked, a Gosu statement is executed.

These are the steps to enable the navigation: 

    1. Open destination location's PCF file
    2. Determine relevant entry point
    3. Specify widget's action property
    4. Deploy PCFs

Locations have methods used to navigate to them

    go(): Renders location in  same frame as source widget
    goInWorkspace(): Renders location in workspace frame 
    push(): Renders location in same frame as source widget and retains previous location so that it can be returned to.

For a more detailed resource, take a look at the "location comparisons.png" file. 

